Adopt a code of conduct for public repositories (#28)
dxw/tech-team-rfcs: rfc-028-adopt-a-code-of-conduct.md

standards to the community leaders.

## Proposal

We should adopt a code of conduct, so that people know how they can expect to
be treated when they interact with our projects – hopefully making them feel
safe to do so.

The most common code of conduct is the [Contributor
Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/). It pledges to make
participation in an open source project a harrassment-free experience for
everyone. It explains:

- the standards of behaviour which are expected of everyone who interacts with
  the project
- who’s responsible for enforcing the standards
- how they’ll enforce the standards – the consequences of violating the
  standards

We want to limit the scope of who finds out about a code of conduct report, to
maintain privacy. So we’ll limit it to the Chief Technology Officer and
Managing Director.

### Guidelines

All public repositories in the `dxw` organisation MUST contain a `CONTRIBUTING.md` and `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` file.

The `CONTRIBUTING.md` file:

- SHOULD explain whether the project is actively seeking contributions from
  outside dxw
- MUST link to the `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` file

The `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` file:

> - SHOULD be a copy of the [Markdown version of the Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/code_of_conduct/).

Reviewer: There's a CLI to automate some of this, if you think that's relevant: https://github.com/simonv3/covenant-generator

Author: That's an option, although if we do the "Create fallback CONTRIBUTING.md and CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md files for the dxw GitHub organisation" step then we’ll just be able to copy it from dxw's `.github` repository, might be easier.

- SHOULD be modified to include the following information about contact methods:
  > Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
  > reported to dxw’s Chief Technology Officer at code-of-conduct@dxw.com. If a

>   > complaint relates to the conduct of the Chief Technology Officer, then

Reviewer: I think Dom is "Director of Technology" (to be pedantic).

Author: On dxw.com/our-people he’s "Chief Technology Officer"?

  > complaints may be reported to the Managing Director at
  > code-of-conduct-md@dxw.com. The current holders of these roles can be found

>   > on [dxw’s people page](https://www.dxw.com/our-people/).

Reviewer: 👍

The fallback is good.

When starting a client project, we SHOULD speak to the client to find out
whether they would like us to add a code of conduct to the project. We’ll need
to understand whether they:

- have the ability to accept reports of violations
- can do this privately
- want to take on the responsibility of enforcing the code of conduct

dxw SHOULD NOT take on the responsibility of enforcing the Code of Conduct for

> a client project.

Reviewer: 👍

> TODO Something about enforcement? – this is one to check with Dom and Dave too.
> This is from the Contributor Covenant site:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Director of Technology or Managing Director MUST take action when receiving a violation report. At a minimum, this MUST include reposponding to the reporter with a plan of action. We MUST document and SHOULD publicise our enforcement procedures as they develop.
```

I think we can be iterative about it.

Author: 👍 – added your suggested words, thanks.

> Do not simply add the Contributor Covenant to your project and assume that
> any problems with civility, harassment, or discrimination will be solved.
> As a project maintainer you must be committed to enforcing the code of
> conduct. A code of conduct without enforcement sends a false signal that
> your project is welcoming and inclusive, and can create a dangerous
> situation for marginalized people who participate. Adding the Contributor
> Covenant to a project places responsibility on the project team that must
> not be taken lightly.
>
> Before adopting the Contributor Covenant take the time to discuss and
> decide how to deal with problems as they emerge. Document the policy and
> procedure for enforcement, and add it to your README or in another visible,
> appropriate place. Consider if your project team has the willingness and
> maturity to follow through on your enforcement procedures.

## Concerns

> Adding a `CONTRIBUTING.md` might suggest that we’re actively seeking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a code of conduct might suggest that we’re actively seeking
```

Author: I think the contributing doc is the one which explains how people can contribute to the project, and so it’s the one which would imply we’re looking for contributions?

Reviewer: What we're sugesting is addnig a `CONTRIBUTING.md` that explicitly states that we're not accepting contributions, though, aren't we?

Author: True – I've changed it.

contributions from outside dxw, even though sometimes we aren’t. Sometimes we
create software which we’re happy to share with the world, but which we don’t
have the time to review contributions for or which we don’t want to grow beyond
a specific use case. And on client projects, we aren’t paid to review code
which isn’t to the client’s needs.

This should not prevent us from having a code of conduct – it’s a pretty
uncontroversial baseline of decent conduct and doesn’t guarantee that we’ll
review or accept people’s work.  As long as our `CONTRIBUTING.md` is clear
about whether the project is seeking contributions, and whether we’re likely to
accept them, then we’re fine. We might like to reply to people’s contributions
and explain why we’re not going to accept them, even if it takes up a little of
our time.

## Next steps

- Set up an email contact code-of-conduct@dxw.com that goes to Dominic Baggott
- Set up an email contact code-of-conduct-md@dxw.com that goes to David Mann

> - Confirm that Dave and Dom are happy to take this role

Author: @evilstreak (and does Dave have a GitHub account) – I'd like to hear your thoughts on being the reporting / enforcement folks, when you've got a moment to think about this.

Reviewer 2: I've chatted this through with Dave. We're both happy to take on these roles.
